Name mapping PEP: Improve "How to teach this" section (#53)
rgommers/peps: peps/pep-9999.rst

How to Teach This
=================

There are at least four audiences that may need to get familiar with the contents of this PEP:

1. Central registry maintainers, who are responsible for curating the list of
   well-known DepURLs and mapped ecosystems.
2. Packaging ecosystem maintainers, who are responsible for keeping the
   mapping for their ecosystem up-to-date.
3. Maintainers of Python projects that require external dependencies.

> 4. End users of packages that have external dependency metadata.

Author: Do we want to add a fifth case, "Package builders"? We could discuss how they'd need to get familiar with the tooling that facilitates the automated installation of external dependencies. Maybe as part of (4)?

Central DepURL registry maintainers
-----------------------------------

Central DepURL registry maintainers curate the collection of DepURLs and the
known ecosystems. These contributors need to be able to refer to clearly
defined rules for when a new DepURL can be defined. It is undesirable to be
loose with canonical DepURL definitions, because each definition added implies
maintenance in the mappings in the target ecosystems.

Package ecosystem maintainers usage
-----------------------------------

Missing mapping entries will result in the absence tailored error messages and
other UX affordances for end users of the impacted ecosystems. It is thus

> recommended that each package ecosystem maintain their mappings up-to-date with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recommended that each package ecosystem keeps their mappings up-to-date with
```

> the central registry. Key to this will be automation, like linting scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the central registry. The key to this will be automation, like linting scripts
```

(see example at `external-metadata-mappings <https://github.com/jaimergp/external-metadata-mappings/blob/main/scripts/lint-mapping-entries.py>`__),
or periodic notifications via issues or draft submissions.

> This maintenance is likely to involve a lot of work to establish the initial
> mapping, but ideally become small on an ongoing basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Establishing the initial mapping is likely to involve a lot of work, but ideally the maintenance on an ongoing basis effort should require smaller effort.
```

Maintainers of Python projects
------------------------------

A package maintainer's responsibility is to decide the DepURL that best
represents the external dependency that their package needs. This is covered
in :doc:`pep-0725`; the interactive mappings browser demo located at
`external-metadata-mappings.streamlit.app <https://external-metadata-mappings.streamlit.app/>`__
may come handy.

If no suitable DepURL is available for a given dependency, maintainers may
consider submitting a request in the central registry.

End user package consumers
--------------------------

> There will be no change in user experience by default. This is particularly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There will be no change in the user experience by default. This is particularly
```
